From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 48. Recorded live
Thursday, January 6th, 2011. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Tellerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks about executable specifications with
Geico ASIC, Jonas Bondi, and
as like, hello. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. We've got an international
show today with a lot
of people and a cast
of thousands. I'm very excited
about this show. We're going
to be talking about executable
specifications and specification by example,
we've got a group from
all over the place we've
got as luck. Hell Sawyer,
who comes from London, but
I guess you're in Chicago
right now. Is that correct?
That's correct. Then I'm originally
born in Norway, so all
over the place. Fantastic. And
then you work on cucumber,
but you are, you consider
yourself, which is a Ruby
tool, but you are a
language agnostic, software developer. Yeah,
I've done mostly Ruby and
Java and I lately quite
a lot of Java script,
some dotnet and some, you
know, I try to, I
try to stay a language
agnostic. I think that's the
best way to be a
developer. So a Norwegian army
knife as it were. Okay.
And then we're going to
learn about what cucumber is.
It seems like all these
new exciting tools have new
and exciting names. So I
was like, who's going to
share with us what cucumber
and we've got Geico Isaac
from the UK right now.
Is that right? You're in
London somewhere or where, where
are you located? Yes. Yes.
At the moment I'm in
London. I'm originally from Serbia.
So you have quite an
international show today, but I'm
in London at the moment.
Okay. And then you work
on fitness, but you also
are a kind of tool
and software agnostic. Yeah. I've
contributed bits to fitness and
then bit started tools. But
I tried to be tool
and language. I tried to
learn as many tools and
languages that I can. And
you also are, have you
finished your book specification by
example? That's actually been finished
since August or September, but
it's not coming out to
me. Don't ask me why.
Okay. But we're going to
all look forward to that
book specification by example, and
then Jonas Bondi from Switzerland.
Is that where you're located
right now? Yes, I am
from Bern, Switzerland. And then
John has works on spec
flow, which is, I think
is on version 1.5 right
now. Yes. That's the latest
version. So as Luck, Geico
and Jonas, I want to
understand what this movement is
towards a specification, what they
call executable specifications. I'm used
to writing specifications in Microsoft
word. And I've always said
when I was an architect
at a large enterprise, that
writing specifications is in word
is unfortunate because a word
document can't break the build.
I've said before that a
word document has no teeth.
And I've always wondered how
I could somehow compile my
word document because it usually
just ends up being something
that's not read who can
give me a kind of
a starting statement about why
that's a bad thing and,
and what we're going to
do about it. Perhaps Geico
could give us a sense
of, Yeah, yeah. I'll probably
start with that one. So
as you said, you know,
a word document doesn't have
any teeth and generally the
traditional models of specifications and
tests in software processes are
completely disconnected from the implementation
and what this, I wouldn't
call it a movement. It's
more sort of a set
of ideas that has been
implemented by lots of people
in different contexts is to
actually make things really precise,
using examples so that anything
that needs to blow up
blows up sooner. So as
we don't get into functional
gaps and inconsistencies, once we
start implementing software, what we
get that a bit sooner
and we get to that
collaboratively with our domain experts,
business analysts, testers, developers, everybody
sort of discusses these examples.
Once something needs to be
implemented and we try and
make it precise. You like
that. And then once we
have these examples, what's sort
of interesting is that the
examples are perfectly precise and
testimonials. So we can take
these examples. We've used to
illustrate our specifications or requirements
and to make them more
precise and automate them as
tests and sort of call
ups the whole gap between
the specifications and tests and
development in the middle. And
that's how we can give
these specifications some teeth, because
if we have enough of
these examples and the university
understood and discussed, everybody knows
what they need to do.
So we build up a
shared understanding, but also we
get to set up these
automated examples, automated specifications and
executable specifications as, as sort
of you've called them. And
then basically you can eliminate
the problem of people not
reading specifications, because if somebody
hasn't implemented something it's going
to break the build, you
can eliminate the problem of
functional regression because if somebody
messed up something that was
working before, you'll break the
build and so on. And
then when you have that
and when the system is
continuously validated against A set
of requirements, using examples, you
get also something very interesting.
You get to live in
documentation system for your software.
That basically is as reliable
as the code, but it's
much more, much easier to
read if done properly and
business users can access that.
So you get a proper
way to build up your
business process documentation, as well
as your building software, which
is something that Luxe quite
often. And if you have
things that have, that have
found that you can prove
their effectiveness, there's so many
ways that it's absolutely a
must have if you want
to release frequently every week
or every day, and keep
doing that in the next
couple of years. So ask
like, what do you think
about that? Is that a
good description? I think that's,
I think that's a great
description. There's one thing that
I would like to add,
and this is a problem
that I've homo with all
of them throughout my entire
career. And that's the problem
that you get with text,
you know, word documents, you
know, any other kind of
document that is just read
by humans. The problem is
very often that they leave
a lot of room for
interpretation. And then the result
of that is misunderstanding. So
the person writing the requirements
is thinking about one thing
and the person reading them
is, is not doesn't necessarily
interpret them in the same
way that the writer intended.
And that's how you get
a lot of or missing
missing requirements. Things like that,
mismatch a disconnect where we
all thought we were on
the same page we went
and we wrote, I said,
how could you not understand?
So by making it executable,
you, you eliminate the, you
know, the risk of misunderstanding
because you actually have a
computer program telling you whether
it's working the way it's
written or not going to
write themselves. I mean, do
you see them opening up
one of these tools and
writing this? I think it
depends in the beginning. That's
at least my experience, the
business user is not able
to write it and doesn't
want to write it. But
once he does see that
this executable specification really is
bound to the implementation and
really has an effect of
it on the system, then
I think a lot of
business users or business analysts
can see the value of
the whole specification by example,
and they can even start
writing the specifications by themselves.
Can I jump in again?
So the, the question you
asked Is a very valid
question and I, I completely
agree with Jonas in terms
of the business summary can
actually do that to themselves.
I have a strong argument
why they shouldn't. And I
think, you know, the most
teams that failed with specification
by example, or behavior driven
development or agile acceptance testing
or whatever, sort of the
name we put on this
fail because they complained that,
you know, their business users
don't want to use a
particular tool and write the
specifications. I think this is
completely sort of a misunderstanding
of the process. And I
think Affleck made a very
strong point on creating a
shared understanding, but the shared
understanding comes from conversation. Doesn't
come from somebody sitting down
and writing stuff. So if
a business suddenly sits down
and writes things in examples,
it's a bit better than
if they write it down
as a word document, but
it still doesn't guarantee that
all the testers have contributed
what they want to contribute.
And the toll the developers
have contributed what they want
to contribute to the specifications,
where the way I see
this process really working well
is actually having this conversation
about examples on the whiteboard.
And then after we have
these examples into the discussion,
whoever the question of who
then takes the results of
the white board and puts
it in a tool is
largely irrelevant. I think actually
at this point it would
be maybe useful to give
an example of what we
mean by example. Yeah. I
would like to understand these
different terms because for someone
who may be listening, who
may not again speak English
as their, their native language,
they started hearing words like
feature scenario, example, and these
could all be thought of
as the same word. And
I think that precision in
software is very important and
certainly with a code, if
it compiles, then, you know,
you have some syntax, correct,
at least. But when you're
writing pros in the form
of English and a certain
syntax, it can be very
confusing. So can you guys,
someone explained to me feature
scenario example, and we'll start
moving a little bit into
implementation because the clarity, I
think is what we're trying
to get a shared understanding
through clear use of language.
Okay. I'll give it a
T a compiler will tell
you whether the comply, you
know, the code compiles correctly.
Now it doesn't tell you
whether it's behaving correctly, right?
And I'm the only person
that can really tell it,
tell you why, whether it's
behaving correctly is the, you
know, the people who asked
for that particular functionality, we
call functionality, we will often
call it feature. So what
people who practice ATDD or
BDD or specification by example
of do is like Loco
said that they're having a
conversation. And the way it
is often happens is let's
take an example. Let's say,
I don't know, sign up,
sign up for, I don't
know. They always use banking
as the example, whenever I
see specifications that start using
BDD or business behavior driven
development, they use banking. So
if someone's trying to sign
up for an account at
a bank, Right, exactly. So
somebody is trying to sign
up for an account in
a bank and various things
can happen when they try
to sign up. So the
developers, then they will go
to the stakeholders or the
people who traditionally write the
requirements. And they say, well,
give me an example of
what would happen when somebody
finds up. Right. And then
maybe the other person would
say, well, they enter their
social security number and address,
and then they hit save,
that's it. And then, but
then the developer or the
test will go well. Yeah.
But then what, what do
you expect to happen? Oh,
well that depends. Okay. Well
what does it depend on?
Well, it can depend, for
example, on their credit history.
If they have a really
bad credit history, we don't
want them to be able
to open an account. So
that's gonna add, so that
we're going to go and
refine the example say, well,
we can, we can say
given that we have a
person with a great credit
history and he fills in
a social security number, we
five, six, eight, seven, three,
then press save. Then he
should be greeted with a
message, you know, welcome to
the bank. Then we can
have another example where we
say the same, except instead
we say a person with
a horrible credit history should
be greeted with a, I'm
sorry, we can't serve you
at this time. Okay. So
let me see if I
understand this. So the feature
is the ability to sign
up for a new account,
and there are different scenarios
for a person who wants
to sign up for an
account. One scenario would be
a good credit history. Another
scenario would be a bad
one. So scenarios branch off
of are all potential things
for a feature owner to
think about. Yes, there, the
different ways that that particular
feature could behave depending on
circumstances. Okay. Is a feature
different from an example, It's
an example is essentially the
same as a scenario. People
use those terms, they exchange
those terms. They mean more
or less the same thing.
Okay. I noticed that there's
a lot of different systems
for one to write the
specifications in, but, and forgive
me if I, if I
misuse the terms, but it
seems that there is this
underlying syntax, is it correct?
That the syntax is called
is called Gherkin. And there
are different implementations of that
where spec flow is one
for the.net folks. And cucumber
is one for the Ruby
folks, but that this the
syntax, where did that syntax
come from? That same syntax
is an evolution of The
way you write tests in
fitness. But it's also an
evolution of the way, a
lot of people in the
agile community, but writing user
stories on just paper index
cards. So it's taking ideas
from both, you know, taking
ideas from both of these
one, two by one, one
tool, and one way that
people just express themselves and
putting it into a grammar
and, and a tool language,
which is called Gherkin thrift
thing that you know, is
probably one of the most
popular ways of specifying these
things. But it's not necessarily
the only way. And in
terms of other ways to
specify that, for example, there's
a tool called , which
allows you to use specifications,
for example, on freeform HTML.
So you Mark up what
our expected inputs and what
our inputs and expected outputs
in, in free form HTML.
And you don't have to
use any particular syntax. So
language for that, and are
other tools, for example, fitness
that are more table oriented
and what Cunningham even had
an example of a tool
that's based on visual swim
lanes for eclipse, that's also
specifying approval workflows for the
eclipse tool, feature process approval
process, something like that using
visual swim lanes. So it's
not the language itself is,
is quite important, I think,
but it's more important to
fit it to a particular
project. Hi, this is Scott
coming to you from another
place in time. Are you
using agile practices to manage
your software development? There's lots
of tools in the market
that manage the steps of
a project, but most of
them focus on individual roles,
get ready for a solution
that caters for the success
of the whole team. Guys
at Tellerik introduced team pulse.
It's an agile project management
tool. That'll help you gather
ideas, estimate plan, track progress
in a common workspace. Finally,
companies, regardless of their size
can use a lightweight and
convenient tool that makes all
the stakeholders work as a
United team. Even if they're
in different countries by combining
intuitive user interface and the
power server light team poles
removes the roadblocks that you
typically face and applying agile
in an effective manner, no
more lost data, no disparate
systems, no lack of critical
analytics regarding the health and
philosophy project. See if yourself
get a free copy for
five users in one project
at tellerik.com/team pulse. And please
do thank Tellerik for supporting
Hanselman it's on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K Keller. We
do appreciate it. There wouldn't
be a Hansel minutes if
there wasn't, Tellerik helping us.
So as I understand it,
a number a number of
years ago, when, when fit
and fitness started to think
about executing something that was
a little different from code,
the idea of executing user
stories kind of came up,
is that correct? And then
there was a thing called
our SPECT and a story
runner. People wanted to run
stories. So then Dan North
did some work on that
and a lot of different
people were involved. If you
can look up at the
QTC stud info website, and
there's a whole list of
people who kind of had
a number of conversations about
this, this language, this metal
language that started to kind
of happen. And both the
SpecFlow website and the QCs
website have really interesting homepages
and right there on the
homepage. You've got some examples.
So I wanted to talk
a little bit about, about
that because the language is
precise, but at the same
time, it's very flexible. I
see here, just looking at
the very first example in
the cucumber website that says,
describe behavior in plain text,
which is a little bit
of a, of a fib
because you do have a
structure, but then you do
have free form. You can
say, here's a scenario and
you could say, then anything
you want, you'd have the
word scenario. And then you
write whatever you want. Can
you even write it in
any language? Does it have
to be in English after
you say scenario, You can
read it in Chinese or
in Hebrew or in Arabic
Norwegian full to different languages.
You can write it in
40 different languages. So the
general structure is like, I
don't know, I'm putting this
in the context of what
I know. Cause I think
people who are listening are
probably familiar with test driven
development, at least more than
behavior driven. And they think
about things in terms of
a range act assert when
they, when they structure their
unit tests. And when you
are doing your executable specs,
you say given possibly. And,
but it's usually given when
then seems to be the
general structure and those are
the keywords. And then anything
after that is, is prose.
Like, as you said, in
any one of 40 languages.
Yeah, that's right. So the
Gherkin language, it comes in
40 different flavors, you know,
it's translated to 40 natural
languages, English, obviously being the
most common one. So you
have there's, I don't know.
I don't remember how many
key words, but there's essentially
five key words and some
synonyms that's feature scenario. And
then given when then, so
each scenario you can have
as many scenarios as you
want in a feature and
each scenario you can have
as many lines starting with
given when, and then, so
that's the constraints, the language
you have to start align
with one of those five
key words, but then you
can say whatever you want
after that. So you can
say scenario, colon, bad credit
history, and then you can,
the next line you can
say, given I have a
person with bad credit history
when he signs up, then
he's not served. And how
important is that text? Does
that, can that be a,
I mean, I understand that
in my experience, working with
folks in this space, they're
very picky about what, how
the, how that's structured. So
even though it's free form,
the people that I've worked
with have been extremely kind
of uptight, let's say about
that. How important is it?
Well, I mean, so remember
that Gherkin serves two purposes.
One is that it should
be readable by people that
don't know how to program,
but at the same time,
it needs to be executable
by an interpreter, which is
spec flow. If you're using.net
or cucumber, you're using a
Ruby or Java. So there
needs to be some structure
in there, but we try
to make it as little
as possible so that I
wouldn't alienate people who we
don't want people to think
about it as a programming
language. Although technically it is,
but it's like camouflage as
prose. So one of the
things is that now you've
written this, like for example,
I'm given they have $10
in their account. Really what's
important out of that, that
sentence is the $10 because
that's potentially something you could
put into the test. And
so then you're going to
want to extract things out
of that. So perhaps Jonas
can say something about that.
Once you've described that behavior
in the plain text, you
need a bridge between your
tests to, to actually pull
that out. How do you
get that information that, that
might be buried inside of
that sentence, in that prose
and get that into your,
into code. So you can
start moving, moving around with
it. Yes, there has to
be another step that is
usually done by, by the
developer. He binds the executable
specification to the implementation of
the system and these are
called step implementations or bindings.
And in this findings, he
can access the plain text
of the executable specification and
extract the values he needs
basically done with the X.
Yeah. And this is the
part where things fall down,
because I think that the
idea of deriving development with
the business behavior seems really,
really positive. And it's a,
it's a beautiful system. And
a lot of people have
said that they feel very
confident in their systems when
they have a large number
of executable specifications. But then
when I hear that there's
a regular expression involved, it's
just kind of a in,
in, on the internet, we
would say a bit of
a sad trombone, you know,
kind of that that comes
up. Is there any way
to get around that, that
little bit of implementation detail?
Why do we think that's
a trombone Because regular expressions
feel very fragile. Yeah. Well,
So regular expressions, you know,
it's, it's the language of
its own and they, and
they can be used for
many different things. And you,
you know, if you look
at some Perl code or
maybe some Ruby or Python
code very often you'll see
complex regular expressions in there
because, you know, but that
doesn't mean that every regular
expression has to be illegible.
So, you know, not readable.
So in, let's say you're
using a spec flow, you
will have for each step,
you will have just a
C shop method and you
will use an attribute with
a regular expression attached to
it. But that regular expression
is going to look pretty
much exactly the same as
a, as a line in
your executable vacation, just with,
it's actually only if you
want to extract special values
that you have to use
stuff like backslash D to
extract an int or star
to extract a string parameter,
you'll have the same sentence,
sentence. So even somebody, even
somebody who isn't familiar with
regular expressions will pick it
up really real quickly. And
then another nice thing is
that both, both cucumber and
SpecFlow, they will actually create
little snippets for you that
will get you started with
a correct regular expression that
you can later tweak if
you need to, but you
get a lot of help
on the way I'm a
writer. Spectral does create those
snippets as well, right? Yes,
that's true. Yeah. So again,
you know, as I said,
lots of people in particular
developers and I I'm as
guilty of this as anybody
else, because I messed up
massively on my sister projects.
When I tried to do
this focus on a tool,
focus on the fact that
something has reg X, so
something has tables or something
has something else where that's
not where the big value
is. The tool is there
very important lead to, to
automate this, you know, lots
of developers just focused on
a tool and they start
implementing a tool. That's what
they want to do because
that's what people are used
to doing. You know, you
have a problem, you find
a tool to solve it.
You implement the tool and
Hey Presto, where this thing
really doesn't work like that.
And, and the book, you
mentioned, it sort of easily
written, but it's not coming
out yet. Is my research
on, I've interviewed about 50
teams that have got some
really big payoffs from VDD
and acceptance testing and things
like that. And all of
them, most of them said
that in the beginning, they
start implementing a tool and
then they understood that this
is a completely wrong way
to go. And that you
have to go and look
at the communication into team,
look at the dynamics of
the team, look at the
process as a whole, and
then once you've improved it,
then the tool fits in.
So, you know, people who
complain about take X and
people who complain about unreal,
the step definition systems and
things like that, toughen, misuse,
these tools to do technical
testing, unit testing and cucumber
unit testing and fitness, because
that's what developers are used
to do without communicating to
anybody else where if you
do this properly, then through
collaboration, you get to examples
and then automating that shouldn't
be a problem. As I
said, you know, these things
are automatically generated quite often.
And the, the, the at
the entry point to the
glucose can be automatically generated.
And from my experience, none
of the teams that have
actually implemented any of the
tools have problems with Xs.
That's just an issue. That's
a complaint from somebody that
doesn't implement the process properly,
and they're getting problems because
of that. Not because of
exists. I think that's a
great point, GOCO, you know,
like you said, it's, it's
very important to, it's a
good, very good point that
it doesn't, it is the
whole process of writing an
executable specifications. Isn't really about
the tool. You know, some,
some tools happened to be
more popular than others, but
I know a lot of
teams who have just made
their own little tool fits
their purpose perfectly. You know,
some people can use Excel.
It really depends on what
kind of domain you're working
in. And I think where
you, where people who haven't
done this, I'm keen to
try it out. I think
they should actually start by
walking over, you know, creating,
starting the conversation between a
domain expert, a tester and
a developer, and just use
a whiteboard and figure out
how can we, how could
we write down examples for,
for this new feature that
we're about to develop and
do it on the whiteboard.
And then you'll figure out
that in some domains you
will do this with like,
with a couple of tables
in other domains, you will,
maybe you will use the
given when then form, well,
maybe you come up with
your own way of doing
it. And once you figure
out a good way to
describe a scenario or an
example in a concise, non
ambiguous way, then you can
pick a tool. I think
that this was an extremely
good examples. I think that
remembering that it's often programmers
who pick these tools, they,
they, they think that a
tool is going to solve
some problems. So they, they,
they, they, they Google for
the tool. They find the
tool, they download the tool
and then they try to
implement the tool as opposed
to implementing the system and
thinking about why is it
that I am doing this?
And you can get so
focused on the tool that
you even forget why you
tried to implement it in
the first time, the first
place. I think that taking
a tool like cucumber or
SpecFlow or any of the
other tools and trying to
use it to test unit
testing, to test units of,
of, of work would probably
be a really great way
to get extremely frustrated with
the system and just give
up and then declare this
is useless. And then they
would start making declarative statements
like BDD is useless because
I tried, I couldn't do
unit testing and cucumber unit
testing tool testing tool as
a black box. Technically you
can test, just don't do
that testing at 10,000 feet,
John, as if you were
going to have a, a,
a rich system with lots
of, lots of let's say,
you know, end unit tests,
let's say you have several
thousand and unit tests in
a very large system. And
then you're going to introduce
something like this into an
existing system, keeping in mind
that at this point, tests
have driven your development, not
behavior driven development, you know,
is there going to be
like a ratio that you
would have? Is there some
number of unit tests to,
I don't know if you'd
call this integration test or
behave or specifications acceptances, We
would call it the acceptance
test. That's the best term.
Okay. Is there like a,
is there a rule of
thumb that forever? I don't
have any rules of in
terms of numbers. I just,
maybe I wanted to highlight
the kind of workflow that
is used. I think also
with cucumber a lot, that's
this outside in development approach.
If the test you're trying
to take to test driven
to a higher level of
obstruction with acceptance test three
minutes, as you start in
test two, even with the
test and then write the
code onto you, write the
test that is failing, and
then write the code until
the test is screen. You
take that to the next
extraction level, and you start
with an end to end
test with an acceptance test.
And then you go, you
dive into the inner circle
and there you start the
unit tests and unit test
drive, writing your code and
your classes. And some, at
some point, your answer to
answer test is getting green.
And at this point you
have cold enough and you
can start with the new
end to end test. And
that's this outside in approach
that I think is propagated
with, with cucumber and also
with spiteful, It really depends
20, 2080. You know, I'm
going to quote you on
that. I think it could
even be, it could even
be sensible to have a
system that only have acceptance
test. If you are not
going to be test driven.
I mean, that's maybe a
bit erratic, but I also
think it's important to see
that there are the acceptance
tests are mainly concerned with
the external quality of the
system that the system really
does, what it should do.
And tests unit tests at
the, at the really fine
granularity are mainly concerned with
internal quality of the system
that the code has some
good qualities. And you, you,
you, you can assure that
with your unit tests, but
these are more or less
orthogonals who you can, you
can have your own mixture
and you have to define
it for your project, how
it is working on. So
I don't know who exactly
said this. It's not me
because of course it is
in my previous book, but
I, that, there's a very
good quote that says that
unit tests tell you that
you've built the system, right?
And acceptance tests tell you
that you build the right
system. So as, as Donna
said, you know, these two
or these two things are
sort of octagonal and you,
you do need both because
we've all unit tests. You
don't know whether you've, you
know, you've done what your
customers want you to do.
And we, the only acceptance
tests, you know, that you've
done something wrong, but it's
harder to find the problems
because you unit tests, a
finer grain, the unit tests
show you how to pinpoint
technical problems, much easier. So
I think in practice, most
teams that I've interviewed actually
use both and quite a
few teams actually sort of
had to implement TDD on
a unit level to go
one level above and expanded
to a business functionality. So
that's a very common path
to BDD or, or accepted
testing specification. By example, I've
interviewed a couple of teams
that have actually implemented this
song, say legacy systems, where
there were no unit tests
below, but they've started to
implement specification workshops and then
try to implement some automated
tests around that. And they
have no unit tests at
all. They only have acceptance
tests at this point. And
the, the, that, that kind
of thing does work, but
it's harder to pinpoint problems
technically than it is. If
you have unit tests as
well. I have also seen
that last example several times
in my experience, and that
you have legacy systems and
it's not my whole, the
whole development wants to get
to a more automated way
of living. And they start
with, with these acceptance tests,
because There is no way
to, to have unit tests
on, on all the legacy
copays. And then they started
with this outside in approach
with new features they implemented.
Yeah. And I think that's
often a, I think that's
often a lot easier to
set up as well, because
if you, it's easier to,
let's say you have an
old legacy system with a
very, very tightly coupled code,
which is often the case.
It's going to be very
hard to just inject the
unit test in there because
very often you have to
instantiate 50 classes just to
run one test. Whereas I'm
poking the system from the
outside with an acceptance test
is, or often a lot
easier, especially if you're writing
test after the fact. Now,
I think, I think a
good rule of thumb if
you started from scratch and
trying to do things the
right way, the more complex
the business rules are of
your system. The more you
need unit tests, if you
have a very simple application,
let's say like a web
app, maybe, maybe all you
need is a high level
acceptance, you know, to take,
to take it to the
other extreme. If you don't
have all of these educations,
you need to test for
at least not as many
as you would with something
really complex. Does that make
sense? Yeah, I think I
th I think that that's
a very, that's a very
good point. I think that
we're getting, as we're circling
the drain a little bit,
as they say that w
what's what's the term that
they talk about when, when
Michael Angelo is trying to
create something that, that he's
got this rock, and he
knows that the, he knows
that the sculpture is in
there. So he just needs
to remove rock. It feels
the same way with these
kinds of things. Like I
could people continue to, to
search for the answer. But
in fact, the answer is
in, is a negative space.
You know, people can tell
you what something is not
more than they can tell
you what it is, but
ultimately you need to keep,
keep in mind. Why are
we doing this? We are
doing this to solve a
business problem. We're trying to
make an, a good experience
for, for users. And the
tool is secondary. And that,
that sounds like that focus
even for professionals, needs to
a reminder, needs to happen
for, for even professionals. I
suppose that you guys as
pros find yourselves in large
system, just reminding yourselves with
a little bit of a,
of a reset communication reset,
saying, all right, why are
we doing this again? I
think we're misusing our, I
think we're misusing our tests.
Well, we're running out of
time, but I want to
thank everyone. I want to
thank  who has joined
us from Chicago, Geico, ASIC,
and also Jonas Bondi. And
we'll go and put up
links to cucumber links, to
gold coast book and links
to spec flow all up
on the site. And then
please join the conversation and
Hansel minutes.com. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you next week.
.